# Chain of Trust: Secure Boot, Trusted Boot, and Measured Boot

## Trust in IT Security

- **A Chain of Trust:**
    - Trust in operating systems and software.
    - Trust in data encryption and secure websites.
    - Reliance on security controls.

- **Hardware Root of Trust:**
    - **Trusted Platform Module (TPM):**
        - Cryptographic functions support.
        - Cryptographic processor (random/ key generator).
        - Storage for keys, encryption keys, and configuration data.
        - Password-protected with anti-brute force measures.
    - **Hardware Security Module(HSM)**

## UEFI BIOS and Secure Boot

- **Secure Boot:**
    - Part of UEFI BIOS.
    - Ensures bootloader integrity.
    - Bootloader signed by trusted certificate.
    - Digital signature verification for bootloader.

- **UEFI BIOS Protection:**
    - Public key in BIOS for digital signature checks.
    - Protection against fake or malicious BIOS updates.

## Trusted Boot

- **Bootloader Verification:**
    - Verify digital signature of the OS kernel.
    - Trusted certificate check for bootloader.
    - Manual approval for digital signature if not from a trusted certificate.

- **Verification of OS Components:**
    - Kernel, boot drivers, startup files.
    - Early Launch Anti-Malware (ELAM) for driver signature checks.

## Measured Boot

- **Hash Measurement:**
    - UEFI BIOS stores hash of firmware, boot drivers, etc.
    - Hash stored within the TPM.

- **Remote Attestation:**
    - Verification report sent to a central server.
    - Encrypted and digitally signed with TPM keys.
    - Server compares the report with trusted information.
    - If modifications detected, administrators can take action.

- **Automated Security Checks:**
    - Enables automated verification for thousands of systems.
    - Centralized management of system integrity.
